docs/src/setup.md, before:

# Setup

> This registers all the available [completers](./completers.md).
> It is also possible to load a single one by replacing `_carapace` with the completer name (e.g. `carapace chmod`).

> **See [UserConfigDir](./setup/userConfigDir.md) for details.**

## Bash

```sh
# ~/.bashrc
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

![](./setup-bash.png)

## Cmd

```lua
# ~/AppData/Local/clink/carapace.lua
load(io.popen('carapace _carapace cmd-clink'):read("*a"))()
```

![](./setup-cmd.png)

> Needs [clink](https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/).

## Elvish

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/elvish/rc.elv
set-env CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
eval (carapace _carapace|slurp)
```

![](./setup-elvish.png)

## Fish

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/fish/config.fish
set -Ux CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
carapace _carapace | source
```

![](./setup-fish.png)

## Nushell

```sh
## ${UserConfigDir}/nushell/env.nu
$env.CARAPACE_BRIDGES = 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
mkdir $"($nu.cache-dir)"
carapace _carapace nushell | save --force $"($nu.cache-dir)/carapace.nu"

# ${UserConfigDir}/nushell/config.nu
source $"($nu.cache-dir)/carapace.nu"
```

![](./setup-nushell.png)

## Oil

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/oil/oshrc
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

![](./setup-oil.png)

## Powershell

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/powershell/Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1
$env:CARAPACE_BRIDGES = 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
Set-PSReadLineOption -Colors @{ "Selection" = "`e[7m" }
Set-PSReadlineKeyHandler -Key Tab -Function MenuComplete
carapace _carapace | Out-String | Invoke-Expression
```

![](./setup-powershell.png)

## Tcsh
```sh
# ~/.tcshrc
setenv CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
set autolist
eval `carapace _carapace`
```

![](./setup-tcsh.png)

## Xonsh
```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/xonsh/rc.xsh
$CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
$COMPLETIONS_CONFIRM=True
exec($(carapace _carapace))
```

![](./setup-xonsh.png)

## Zsh

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/zsh/.zshrc
autoload -U compinit && compinit
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
zstyle ':completion:*' format $'\e[2;37mCompleting %d\e[m'
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

Order of groups can be configured with the zstyle [group-order](https://zsh.sourceforge.io/Guide/zshguide06.html).
```sh
zstyle ':completion:*:git:*' group-order 'main commands' 'alias commands' 'external commands'
```

![](./setup-zsh.png)

Commit message:

docs: add PowerShell MenuComplete requirement note
Adds a note to the PowerShell setup instructions explaining that
MenuComplete is required and that EditMode Emacs must be set before
the Tab key handler to avoid raw ANSI escape codes appearing in the
prompt.

Fixes #3078
See carapace-sh/carapace#997 (comment)

docs/src/setup.md, after:

# Setup

> This registers all the available [completers](./completers.md).
> It is also possible to load a single one by replacing `_carapace` with the completer name (e.g. `carapace chmod`).

> **See [UserConfigDir](./setup/userConfigDir.md) for details.**

## Bash

```sh
# ~/.bashrc
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

![](./setup-bash.png)

## Cmd

```lua
# ~/AppData/Local/clink/carapace.lua
load(io.popen('carapace _carapace cmd-clink'):read("*a"))()
```

![](./setup-cmd.png)

> Needs [clink](https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/).

## Elvish

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/elvish/rc.elv
set-env CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
eval (carapace _carapace|slurp)
```

![](./setup-elvish.png)

## Fish

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/fish/config.fish
set -Ux CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
carapace _carapace | source
```

![](./setup-fish.png)

## Nushell

```sh
## ${UserConfigDir}/nushell/env.nu
$env.CARAPACE_BRIDGES = 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
mkdir $"($nu.cache-dir)"
carapace _carapace nushell | save --force $"($nu.cache-dir)/carapace.nu"

# ${UserConfigDir}/nushell/config.nu
source $"($nu.cache-dir)/carapace.nu"
```

![](./setup-nushell.png)

## Oil

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/oil/oshrc
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

![](./setup-oil.png)

## Powershell

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/powershell/Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1
$env:CARAPACE_BRIDGES = 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
Set-PSReadLineOption -Colors @{ "Selection" = "`e[7m" }
Set-PSReadlineKeyHandler -Key Tab -Function MenuComplete
carapace _carapace | Out-String | Invoke-Expression
```

> **Note:** The `Set-PSReadlineKeyHandler -Key Tab -Function MenuComplete` line is **required**.
> The default `Complete` function (used by PSReadLine's `Emacs` edit mode) will display raw ANSI escape codes
> (e.g. `^[[21;22;23;24;25;29m^[[39;49m`) in the prompt instead of styled completions.
>
> If you use `Set-PSReadLineOption -EditMode Emacs`, make sure it is placed **before** the
> `Set-PSReadlineKeyHandler` line above, as it resets key bindings and would override the `Tab` binding
> back to `Complete`.

![](./setup-powershell.png)

## Tcsh
```sh
# ~/.tcshrc
setenv CARAPACE_BRIDGES 'zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
set autolist
eval `carapace _carapace`
```

![](./setup-tcsh.png)

## Xonsh
```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/xonsh/rc.xsh
$CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
$COMPLETIONS_CONFIRM=True
exec($(carapace _carapace))
```

![](./setup-xonsh.png)

## Zsh

```sh
# ${UserConfigDir}/zsh/.zshrc
autoload -U compinit && compinit
export CARAPACE_BRIDGES='zsh,fish,bash,inshellisense' # optional
zstyle ':completion:*' format $'\e[2;37mCompleting %d\e[m'
source <(carapace _carapace)
```

Order of groups can be configured with the zstyle [group-order](https://zsh.sourceforge.io/Guide/zshguide06.html).
```sh
zstyle ':completion:*:git:*' group-order 'main commands' 'alias commands' 'external commands'
```

![](./setup-zsh.png)
